hello everyone I had spent a little bit
since I've been able to do a vlog here I
am I'm gonna focus the first part of
this vlog talking about sort of how
things are going for me on a
professional front and answer a lot of
the questions that I've received from
people before in the comments or
elsewhere in the past couple months
since I I left Yahoo and then the second
half of this vlog I'm going to be
talking about the second half of this
video
you know just what's been going on in my
life and all that kind of stuff because
I think more people are interested in
the professional stuff less people are
interested in the life updates so we'll
save those for later the first thing
that I want to talk about is patreon cuz
I've actually received look when I left
Yahoo I didn't know what was gonna
happen if I was gonna get a job right
away if I was gonna go work for someone
else what the deal was and so I didn't
want to start a patreon despite the fact
that a lot of people suggested it and
I'm still very very iffy about patreon
because I have yet to see besides maybe
one which was a very specific show that
Thorin and Richard Lewis created a
successful patron on eSports it's my
opinion that fans don't really care
about supporting patreon in the esports
space whatever that being said there's
been a lot of requests from viewers who
watch my content to have patreon they'd
rather use that than like the support
page that I linked in the comments and
is on this on this thing they'd like to
have some sort of monthly way of helping
to support me so I am consciously
creating a patreon I'm doing it very
simple everything I'm not gonna put
anything behind a patreon pay wall I am
not doing special rewards or bonuses for
people that reach a certain tier I'm not
committing to anything just because
again you know you end up in this world
sometimes where you have a patreon
that's like 150 250 bucks you've
promised to do all the stuff for people
you end up in this situation where
you're working for less than minimum
wage it's not good so I just want to be
honest with everybody I've made this
patreon for the people that have asked
for it it is patreon that column /
Travis cafard if you want to support me
there that's great I am skeptical but
you know if you don't want to use
patreon you can
to support me just buy something to my
twitch channel or using the direct
support links at Travis Khafre comm
support link and all that stuff so if
you do want to go to patreon let me go
ahead and pull this up so that people
can see as I'm sure people would like to
know what it looks like before they even
go there because that's the kind of
digital age that we live in and it's
almost unloading onto the screen and
here we go
so yeah this is the patreon I've got a
little bit of a blurb there right now we
don't have anything and the first the
first goal is five point five
cake because then I'd be living the h2k
salary life so there you go that's
what's a patreon is now a live thing
next up I want to answer a question that
I get a lot at a bunch of different
comments which is why won't right hire
this guy or whatever why well Travis you
should go apply for work it right I get
this this is probably the number one
question I get you know a while ago some
of you might remember a couple years ago
I did a video basically talking about
why it's okay to not work it right why
while I recommend people there it's not
a path that I'm interested in taking
myself I'd recommend you go watch that a
lot of stuff there if you want to if you
want to know I like write a lot but I
feel like right now I can just do a lot
of content that I can't do it right if I
was there you know a great example is
that a mortal's video that I did during
worlds where I was kind of speculating
on my morals might not have made it into
the NLCS next year there's this content
I'm not going to be able to put out when
I'm at right and I also really like the
idea that I can just like an incoming
point in time turn on a camera record
something and then post it to youtube
it's just very very different I think
working there and I can do a lot more
for the eSports industry and for League
of Legends outside of riot than I can do
it so that's why that's the case I think
right likes me
I like riot I recommend people go work
there it's a great place to work but
it's not something I'm currently looking
to pursue myself and I'm sure that yeah
you know I have pretty good relationship
those those guys I don't you know one
should be faulting them for not
I think in a world where I wanted to
pursue that path there would certainly
be a pretty good chance that I could
talk to some folks over there and you
know see what opportunities exist but
for the time being trying to remain
independent what else would we got here
oh yes so some people saw that I had a
sponsor for worlds and I did a little
deal with omen by HP for Blizzcon so
thank you to both those guys are both
those companies for working with me it's
very much appreciated
I think it's effort and I also want to
thank the audience by the way the
viewers I know that it can be kind of
annoying whenever people are messaging
you know an advertisement or response or
something I try to do in a really
respectful way so that people don't feel
like the content was getting messed with
at all and I was still a little nervous
but it seems like the audience really
appreciated the sponsors and that they
was really complaining or feeling like I
was selling out or anything like that
and I think you know first off that's
great thank you guys so much because I
think that's a a good testament to sort
of the value that my content can bring
to a sponsor is that not only will the
viewers not complain about the content
or the advertisement in it but they will
also support the sponsors so that's
great and I wanted to give you guys a
little bit more of an understanding of
why I do this stuff and sort of what
some of the financials are here so
they're not great and we've talked very
very openly before about adblock rate
and actually just a day ix
after November Thursday just in case
this doesn't go out today I a video with
live with me and Thorin and a couple of
the other guys on the east and the
eSports media industry talking about
some of the monetization challenges so
the whole point I'm trying to make here
is this it's pretty impossible to make
money just by posting stuff to YouTube
and you know sort of doing my thing I
really need to find external partners or
consulting work or I have fans support
me through patreon or wherever else for
me to really make a go at being
independent
and I think well here we'll dive into
the YouTube stuff first so just save a
little bit of context on YouTube
the adblock rates are really bad they
are so bad for instance that about a
quarter of my revenue from YouTube comes
from YouTube bread that is crazy from
talking to other people you know outside
of eSports think about you know think
about the small percentage of the
audience that has youtube bread
what are you probably watching us don't
even know what it is and that that is
still enough to become a quarter of my
revenue so you can kind of tell how few
ads are getting seen by people on
YouTube and don't worry about turning
our block off it's not really
significant even if even if a couple
percentage of people turned a block off
on my channel which about its Moses I
could expect you know I it wouldn't
really increase my income in a
meaningful way and then the other issue
that's happening with YouTube right now
is what Isis if infinite here we go so
there was a big scandal a couple months
ago about ads being served on really
sketchy YouTube videos so in response to
this blizzard is simplistic YouTube has
done this thing where they are using an
automated system to scan for content
that might not be suitable for
advertisers the problem is is that this
thing has become notoriously terrible at
flagging the wrong stuff so and doing it
in a very sporadic way so several of
these videos went live after being
uploaded privately for a while and while
they were uploaded privately they never
got noticed by the scanning system then
hours after they've gone live they were
noticed an advertisement basically got
turned off on them I never get alerted
when this happens and I have to
constantly find like just scan to see if
that's happening and then request a
review well the review comes in and
often times it's like 24 hours or
something long long after the video has
already seen most of its views so what
I'm getting at is to even on the YouTube
side like it's just there's not a
significant amount of income here so I
am relying on on third party people and
that's maybe gets us to the next thing
which is what do I want to do with my
life from a professional standpoint and
look a couple of months ago if you had
asked me if I was gonna stay independent
I would have said no probably not now I
would say there's a 50/50 chance
I am excited and encouraged by the
partnership I had with mobile it excited
to encourage with the partnership that I
had with omen and I hope that more of
the stuff will continue the problem is
is that now there's not much going on
for the next two months you know there's
all stars which is about four days long
this was kind of hard for me to make any
money over the first two months and a
lot of people have been asking you how
am i doing this well you know besides
obviously a couple things here and there
I also have just some money left from
from Yahoo so I've been able to kind of
just take my time to explore my options
and decide if I want to be independent
so I'll create content and and so I have
probably until the end of January or
until February or so before I really
need to find something full-time if I
haven't made this thing work not to go
too much into my personal finances but
that's that's sort of in my mind where
I'm looking at and I think more and more
I'm swings the idea of being kind of an
independent person who creates content
has specific partners can do some sort
of white label production stuff behind
the scenes white label production for
this is I don't know being like you know
agencies or sponsors or whoever can hire
me out and I will help them create
content not always honk on camera
because at Yahoo that was a lot of what
I did so maybe this can work maybe maybe
maybe but I'm not sure and so I'm gonna
make a run for it because
you know I'm I've gotten some there are
some opportunities out there you know
some teams have reached out to me for to
work for them other people have reached
out to me almost all these jobs would
require me leaving doing the content
that I like doing and that supposedly a
lot of you like watching so I don't want
to give up on this yet and I'm gonna
keep trying we're gonna give it a couple
months we're gonna see how much I can
weather the storm
maybe the patreon will suddenly bloom up
and be surprising but I think people
don't understand how much money it cost
to do all that stuff because I have to
pay like a producer when I go to China
the two of us have hotel rooms and I
need to feed them and I need to pay for
its airplane take it etc so I'd mobile
expose able to help me out so you know
even in a world where my patrons
suddenly maybe five six seven grand a
month which is significant very very
significant you know all in a lot of
cases stuff would be going directly to
just covering the costs of going to
something like na LCS spring and summer
finals etc so that's where we're at I'm
gonna make a play at being independent
while still talking to other people
looking for other cool opportunities and
I have some conversations still going on
right now so can't make any promises
that I will stay independent but I
really want to keep creating this
content for you guys and hopefully we
can figure out how to do that together
you me and potential partners so if
anybody wants to sponsor my content
please let me know because I'm happy to
do that and can do some cool stuff I
think for it finally let's talk a little
bit about my personal life I was in
China for four weeks which is difficult
when you don't have maybe the best
internet and start to find food that you
want etc but thankfully was able to do
this nice kind of cute thing where I
instead of going straight back to Los
Angeles stopped in Maui for two nights
using airline miles that I had so was
able to do that on the cheap and then I
am being flown out to Europe on Saturday
for the eSports Awards and I told them
to book me out
you know a couple extra days as well in
Europe because I don't have a job right
now so I could just you know if I'm
gonna go to Europe better to spend a
week there then just do a 48-hour
turnaround and find again like some
cheap Airbnb options and and maybe like
a train ride or something like that that
I can do just to kind of take advantage
of my free time also not blowing a ton
of money while I figure out what's next
in my life so that's what's going on
with me I really want to thank all of
you for the support that you've given me
over the past several months I did not
expect to continue to be independent or
unemployed I guess you know almost five
months since we announced Yahoo eSports
shutting down I think it's been it's
kind of crazy to me that I'm still still
here and again like there are some cool
opportunities out there for me if I need
them nobody needs to be worrying about
me but I think the question is can I
continue to do content independently
because that might be one of the few
options I have for how to continue to
the content that people like and after
worlds while I was sitting at Worlds I
was like man do I really want to leave
all this stuff I don't know if I do so I
want to keep creating content hopefully
I can find some more third parties to do
that with and and maybe some consulting
opportunities or whatever and this has
been my update thanks for watching
some more cool content coming really
enjoyed the stuff we did a place con and
hopefully you guys will be seeing some
cool interviews and the next week or so
thanks for watching